Christopher Clark
565 Cleve Cole Rd.
(972) 854-9024
Christopher.w.clark89@gmail.com


13,900 words










ORBIT

by Christopher
Appearance
      Message Iteration: 3561
      Destination: Kepler-1638b orbiting Kepler-1638, type G4V star. 
      Estimated arrival: Standard Earth Year 4543
      Origin: Earth orbiting Sol, type G2V star. 
      Emission Date: August 27th, Standard Earth Year 2051
      Platform: SETI Long-Range Radio Broadcasting Antennae aboard the Mission Cassandra Low Orbit Satellite
      Subject: You Are Not Alone. You Are In Danger
      
      This is NASA Mission Specialist Dr. Alexander Demopoulos Michaelson, the last remaining member of Mission Cassandra, representing the entirety of my civilization, the civilization of Man. We are lost, but it is the hope of this mission, our last, that the receiver of this message, wherever and whatever you may be, should benefit from our folly.
      You are not alone. You are in danger.
      
      You are not alone.
      We named ourselves Man, though our technical name is Homo sapien. We emerged from the plains of Africa from an evolutionary linage that began 2.8 million Standard Earth Years ago with Homo habilis, the first species believed to possess the capacity for tool use. Our family includes Homo erectus, named for the novel upright locomotion, Homo neanderthalensis, Denisovans, Homo rhodesiensis, Homo heidelbergensis, and Homo antecessor. Of our unfortunate cousins, only we survived. We are characterized by our bipedalism; our sexual dimorphism; our large brain size; our affinity for creativity, art, music, science, and abstract reasoning; and our rapid expansion across, and subsequent domination of, our little blue planet. This is us, what we are. However, we share this world, Earth, with an innumerable number of other creatures, some similar to Man and others dissimilar, some large and complex and others simple, some individualistic and others social, some that fly or swim or run, some that are prey and others predators. All known life here is carbon-based, anchoring the complex structures of the proteins, nucleic acids, and other compounds essential to life as we understand it. We have speculated about other possibilities, but nothing promising has ever been found here or elsewhere. Earth's inhabitants can be found in every corner of the globe, from the deepest oceans to the highest mountains. There is no crevice of our planet that has not been touched by Life's caress. Our world is beautiful, maybe even more so now that Man is gone. To some, our planet is saved, but I will leave that up to you to decide. 
      As of this transmission, we know of only one planet that sustains life, Earth. We have been searching for some time for others on other worlds, and our astrobiologists have many compelling ideas, but we are still young among the stars, our technology more primitive than our dreams. So, we turn our satellites and our ground-based telescopes to the Void and search. The first major organization to do this, and of which I am a member, is named Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence, SETI. We were founded by a planetary scientist, Carl Sagan, who imagined a universe teeming with life, overflowing with a myriad of forms incomprehensible and terrifying in their diversity. He died having no answer. Would he have liked the one we got? 
      SETI's original mission was to detect the signs of intelligent, advanced life through radio transmissions of the type you are receiving. Will the SETI of your world find this message? We hope so. 
      We thought that we were alone. Our efforts in the decades from SETI's founding to now yielded little, and our few explorations of other bodies in our local solar system always came up empty of hard evidence, though only further tantalized us. We thought to drill into the ice on Europa and Enceladus or to roam along the rocky terrain of Titan, but nothing more substantial than fly-by missions were ever produced. As problems mounted on Earth, resources dwindled for superfluous spending on the imaginations of the dreamers of our kind, and Man focused on the looming disasters on the horizon. SETI was always meant to inspire us, to foster a spirit of cooperation and species-wide concern. It did, but not in the way we had imagined.
      The first signals came from just outside the gravitational reach of Saturn, a large and well-orbited planet in our solar system. The signals, when they came, were unignorable and unsupressable. I am sure that the governments of the world would have preferred to keep this discovery, the greatest in history, a secret while they analyzed the cultural and scientific impact that it would have. They had no such luck. A powerful burst of electromagnetic radiation in all frequencies erupted past the orbit of Rhea, one of Saturn's smaller moons. Every instrument attuned to radio frequencies caught part of it, and the specialized instruments which scanned the microwave, ultraviolet, x-ray, and gamma wavelengths dutifully alerted their masters to the presence of the new phenomenon. Even amateur astronomer witnessed bright illuminations that slipped with ease through the visible spectrum. Reports of a pulsing globe, perfectly spherical and hovering in the blackness of space between Saturn and its twin Neptune were reported all across the globe. Within hours, the public, military, and civilian governments of the world demanded an answer from the scientific establishment. None was forthcoming. The orb wasn't large, initial estimates put its size at twenty kilometers across. This was well within the range of the celestial body that obliterated a previously dominant form of life on Earth. Its peoples were understandably worried. 
      At first, spectroscopers tried to determine the physical composition of the object. It had to be made of something solid, right? Perhaps the brewing compound of inorganic and hydrocarbonic matter comprising most small bodies dancing their way through our solar system? No such evidence surfaced. The opposite appeared to be true. All tests showed only a shimmering, spherical concentration of electromagnetic radiation. Proposed ideas ranged from barely-conceivable theoretical objects to extra-terrestrial intervention. While the object hung suspended in the dying glow of Sol, every scientist whose expertise could be useful began to pour their collective effort into eliminating the most obvious answer: the orb wasn't natural.
      If it were natural, that would be incredible, of course, but the phenomena didn't match even the wildest, least-grounded guesses. Those with tools used them to collect data to feed to the theorists, who in turn churned through the hypothetical and unsubstantiated scenarios and objects our physics and mathematics had uncovered. Nothing matched what the telescopes revealed. Scientists and engineers had free reign to propose any idea that came to mind, no matter how improbable or impossible. Black holes, white holes, worm holes, strange star, quark star, and every other permutation of matter floated through the symposiums and the conferences peppering the globe. Up to now, no one was afraid. Oh, there were those that dusted off their Bibles, or Korans, or various other religious texts, and pontificated or expounded intangible connections between the object and their preferred eschatological view. Few paid much heed. The world was interested, but didn't yet understand its precarious position. Public attention was fickle then, and the world at large soon turned to focus on other, more pressing personal issues. Some continued to espouse the view that it signaled the end of the world, or that it heralded the establishment of a Man-Alien cooperation. Their voices dwindled. We have an acronym, UFO, which means Unidentified Flying Object. Now, the orb satisfied that label well, but the phrase had connections to an incident and subsequent related events in my country almost one hundred years earlier involving abduction, secret experimentation with xenomorphs, and other imaginative scenarios, all equally untrue. To avoid invoking such stories, the collective governments and scientists advising them took to calling the object the Electro-Magnetic Anomaly, or EMA. The hope was such a technical term with no obvious connotations to intelligence or secrecy might temper the public's fear that we were in the midst of an invasion. It seemed to work for a while.
      As the days passed with the EMA continuing to defy Saturn's gravitational tug, prominent science fiction authors joined the conversation. Unencumbered by the logical, physical, and mathematical rules which governed the practical man's pursuits, they proposed increasingly absurd possibilities. The world governments met these with unbridled enthusiasm. Nothing bore fruit. Then, through no known catalyst, twelve days after the unprovoked appearance, the EMA began its descent into Saturn's sphere of influence. Every available telescope, ground and space based, trained on the EMA, and with horror, the world watched as it careened through the ice-and-dust speckled space ahead on an energy conserving geodesic to intersect with the orbit of Enceladus. It moved with incredible speed, reaching quickly an appreciable fraction of the speed of light. Astronomical bodies do not move like that. The observing world waited for the impact, an impact which should irrevocably alter the satellite. Immediately before impact, the EMA slowed and with made soft contact with the reflective face of Enceladus, with its ice. The landing was gentle and uneventful. From here, it didn't even appear to pierce, crack, or otherwise disturb the ice. How was that possible?
      To many, this proved two facts. One, that it was massive. After all, if it weren't, why not move at the cosmic speed limit? The spectral analysis showed nothing yet known to us and the idea that it was a collection of massless energy of some kind had gained traction. However, massless objects only move at one speed, and it clearly gained and lost velocity during its trajectory. Some detractors remained determined, but without jettisoning a century's worth of physics, and in the absence of good alternatives that preserved the massless nature of the EMA, the point had been settled. The second fact was that it possessed volition beyond obeying the known laws of physics. The greatest computation machines at Man's disposal calculated the forces on the EMA and the consequent possibility-space of its movement, and in not one simulation did it behave in the observed maner. Again, without a complete overhaul of celestial mechanics and a supplanting physics, of which we had no notion and therefore, according to a famous Austrian philosopher from the previous century, we must be quiet, we had to conclude that it sought something that was not a return to a resting state. Now, to where could we reason with these two ideas, that it is massive and that it displays some volition?
Moons
      Differential Actionability. We determined that it had to at least be differentially actionable in the way that bacteria are. A bacteria is a small, single celled organism that reacts to its environment in a way that cannot be determined from its volume, mass, charge, etcetera. The bacteria differentiates its environment and recognizes sustenance or danger and chooses, even if mechanically, some action that is not a direct and predictable consequence of its most basic physical characteristics. No, the structures and purpose of said structures must be taken into account to understand the behavior of a differentiated object, a requirement for displaying differential actionability. Now, few call that intelligence proper, but it marked the EMA as more than just an object. It elevated it to the status of having complexity, specialized and teleologically motivated anatomy. Few took this evidence to mean that it was intelligent, but many entertained the possibility that it was a tool of some sort, perhaps even with a reconnaissance purpose. It could have also been a form of life, though without having access to its internal organization, it was deemed impossible to determine whether it arose naturally, though radically, as a simple organism with limited volition, or whether it had been created with premeditation. Either way, we watched and learned.
      It hovered over the ice, intermittently brightening and darkening, for several weeks. The most obvious answer offered was that it was making a determination. The issue with that though is that no particularly interesting activity could be seen on Enceladus from our vantage point, nothing that would highlight it as noteworthy. The moon is small, frozen on the outside, but with a salty sea flowing underneath it, deeper at the poles. The ocean is thought to be a consequence of tidal heating, the energy of the orbit and rotation as it moves through the gravitational influences of its cosmic dancing partners, the other moons of Saturn, impart energy into the fragmented shards of rock characterizing its interior. They then jostle and tumble under the ice, transforming gravitational energy into kinetic energy and further into radiative heat. Cassini flyby missions evidenced various organics and hydrocarbons, which, combined with the hypothesized hydrothermal vents that are proported to be the source of the plumes of salt water containing the aforementioned molecules, builds a strong case of the possibility of life. 
      Enceladus is special to us for this reason, and of all the places in our solar system that the EMA could have appeared, for it to make contact with that body, Enceladus, first, offered tantalizing and frightening possible insights into its motivation. The collective public of the world's nations had returned to their lives during the lull between when the EMA appeared and when it passed over Enceladus. However, this new movement electrified the populace, and riots demanding satisfactory answers outside the NASA headquarters and the White House quickly became the daily norm. Those that professed the End of the World saw their ranks swell, and cults of various origins established themselves around the globe. The world waited in anxious anticipation to see what would happen on Enceladus. 
      Various heads of state declared martial law and desperately tried to control the flow of information. This was, predictably, met with hostility. Overnight, these strong-handed governments attempted to cut off the internet and stem the flow, not of information per se, there wasn't enough of that to incite anything, but of misinformation. The EMA actions hinted at basic intelligence, but no more than the simplest creatures on our world, or perhaps autonoma, possessed. The possibility of life outside of our world, whether the EMA be it or merely the work of said life, answered some of Man's oldest questions, defying some of our most-cherished ideas about where we stood in relation to the rest of existence.
      You see, Man believed, save a few bold, hounded, and outspoken individuals, that it was unique, that it had been chosen by something, that Existence existed for it. Now, perhaps you think so too. I do not wish to repudiate such a belief if your civilization holds it dear, and existence of other life does not negate the possibility of any particular life being special. So our religious leaders told us. They told us that, like all in the heavens and on Earth, this machine, or being, came from and belonged to the Lord, whatever name it had. This did little to placate the festering wound that resulted from millenia of belief evaporating among the mind of the common man. Churches, mosques, synagogues, and temples flooded as Man searched for answers that science exposed, yet failed to explain.
      The EMA continued to pulse, to scan, according to some, to harvest some energy source, according to others. Neither camp had much weight. No one knew. Then, again by some cue that Man missed, the EMA opened. Or rather, it dripped smaller, equally luminous, perfectly spherical, droplets downward into the ice. The overall size of the EMA didn't change, but there was no visible hatch or orifice by which the smaller orbs escaped. Light appeared to collect, to undulate across the surface of the EMA and concentrate on the bottom. A bulge grew, and when the bulge reached some unknown limit, it coalesced and dripped, like liquid, to the surface. 
      When it reached the surface, it drilled. Large plumes of water vapor and the compounds mentioned earlier spewed from the bore-hole. The sheer magnitude of the chaos should have obfuscated our sensors, and in the visible spectrum it did. However, in the microwave, we saw warm bodies radiate from the hole in the ice in all directions, encircling the rocky center in a matter of hours. Soon, the whole subsurface ocean bristled with the orbs. Then, the orbs concentrated in several distinct areas. They brightened dramatically, frequently, collecting and concentrating, then moved on. They made quick work of whatever they came to do. Within days, the points of interest, where the legion of spheres, so similar to their parent, grouped and worked, disappeared. We have insufficient evidence to determine what the orbs were after, nor what they did when they reached a sufficient concentration at their destination. We do have guesses, educated, we hope, that will be explained in due time. All we know is that they first spread across the planet in staggering numbers, in the millions as far as we could discern with our primitive technology, presumably to investigate further, and then collected at certain points. Once there, they joined and their energy concentration spiked. Heat, radio, x-ray, everything. They turned on, whatever that meant to them, and did something there under the ice. The temperatures we recorded could disintegrate any known substance. But, the amalgamated orbs only blinked with such power. Then, they moved on. To add to the mystery, we could see no effect, other than the bore-hole, that the orbs or the EMA had on Enceladus.
      The orbs returned to their mother-ship, as we named it, and lifted right out of the water, through the same hole in which they entered, and became part of the original again. During the whole episode, no difference, in any way, had been detected in the source. 
      By this point, three weeks since the EMA first arrived, and the question of how it did so had been deprioritized since it first interacted with out solar system, the governments of the world gained a tenuous hold on the flow of information. World-wide communication had been cut, and only the top-level scientists, those they reported to, and the military leadership of the world remained updated on the happenings of the EMA. Unconstitutional, draconian measures swiftly passed and the leaders of thee world's nations, even, I am ashamed to admit, my own, signed censorship laws, often including, however hidden, insidious provisions for indefinite detention and, in some horrendous cases, extra-judicial killings. This didn't help. Those civilians with means to continue monitoring the EMA found themselves disappearing, dying in the street, sometimes with laughably-fake cover-stories, but often without, a warning to others who wished to speculate and undermine the official story. What was the official story? Well, that depended on the country, but they all contained the essential elements: The EMA was a hitherto unknown and undiscovered phenomena. It posed no threat to Man, and was natural in nature. No government wished to confront their peoples with the possibility of an unnatural, xeno-made, or xeno-morphic, object that possessed the ability to bore through ice kilometers thick and disseminate throughout the world instruments of what, reconnaissance, destruction? Instead, they preferred to keep their populations ignorant. Did this work? Not really. 
      There were those that accepted this. After all, it didn't, up to this point, affect Man at all. There were still hungry mouths to feeds, jobs that needed to be attended too. But Man is a funny creature. Fear unites and divides us in equal measure. I would have hoped that this fear would unite us, and in the opening moments of our reckoning, it did. I remember how it was then, everyone working, from every field, towards one, singular goal. The fervor, the enthusiasm, the corporeal excitement overshadowed the doubts, the worries, and the primordial panic that served our ancestors so well out on the grasslands. Now though, the knowledge that this EMA meant to do something here, and had chosen, for completely unexplainable reasons, to mar this planet, which I would like to remind the listener, or reader, of this message, was one of the few celestial bodies thought capable of sustaining life, awakened in the minds of military strategists and national leaders that same trepidation that forced ancient man to take hold of spear and isolate him and those he held dear. 
      At this point, all we had was speculation. Almost a month of 24-hour investigation by the most sophisticated devices at our disposal had uncovered little more than we knew the second the EMA appeared. But, it gave us ample fuel for theorizing. So, what did we know? We knew that the EMA contained with in it the ability to generate massive quantities of energy, that it would concentrate itself and divide itself and those dividends would then go on to do the same thing. We knew that it sought something, something that it found, or at least believed that it might find, on Enceladus, and that it did its work quickly. Did this mean that it found what it searched for and completed its mission, or that it didn't, and left to try again? We weren't sure. 
      Leaks were impossible to contain. Despite the international communication network's disconnection, those with the skills swiftly set up nodes of decentralized internet, and an underground, illicit network established itself across the world, where government official privy to the information hinted at what occurred, the latest speculations and hypotheses, and what the next steps entailed. This only fueled already raging fires and lit new ones. The leaders of our world's religions, the Pope, Dali Lama, the archbishops of the various churches of the ancient world, Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch, their counterparts in Asia, Africa, and America, variously attempted to mollify their followers or stoke the flames, declaring that the governments hid power, knowledge of aliens, or some other great secret for which mankind strove to understand. Others still proposed that it was all a hoax, that the leaders of Washington, D.C., Moscow, and Beijing were using the happening as an excuse to dramatically diminish citizens' rights and assert total dominance over their peoples. 
      The aggressive protests steadily increased in violence and several prominent citizens on either side, working for the governments or against them, were killed, often in spectacular, gruesome ways, for the chanting hordes demanding to know what was happening. Blackouts, for all that they did to contain and limit the propagation of unwanted organization and sensitive knowledge, allowed rumors to flourish, infecting us faster than the great plagues which decimated whole civilizations in our history. Insurgent groups, jihadists, separatists, environmentalist, anarcho-primitivists, nationalists, anyone fighting against the establishment, whatever they took that to mean, seized the opportunity. While the EMA finished its mission on Enceladus, they bombed government installations, oil derricks, government-lead and private labs, military bases and factories supplying them, and other sites deemed important. Marauding groups of students looted universities and torches libraries. Clashes with government and police personnel often left scores of civilians dead, but there were some notable exceptions where the opposite happened. Was this worth it, to hide from humanity what happened so far away? 
      Yes, yes it was. By this point, the governments still controlled the world, still strangled whatever free speech and press remained, but the food still flowed, even if shortages had cropped up in the poorer regions, and the terrorists, or freedom fighters, were kept more or less in check. However, once the EMA began moving again, that changed. 
      Enceladus' connection to life was unignorable, but one point does not make a data set, and the second point of information might have assuaged Man's fear, almost did. The second best candidate, and right in Enceladus' backyard, so to speak, was Titan. Of all the worlds known to Man, Titan was one of three, other than Earth, that might contain life. The EMA's fascination with Enceladus raised the possibility that it sought life, but if it then went to Titan, that would all but confirm that hypothesis in our minds.
      However, it did no such thing. After collecting the smaller orbs, it left Enceladus and perched several hundred kilometers in the air. We thought that it was scanning again, just as it had done earlier when it waited by Rhea. This time, it did not wait two weeks. Merely three days passed before it exploded out of its position in Enceladus' sky towards, not Titan, but somewhere in the Jovian system. At first, this allayed many fears that it sought life, but, once the calculations were done, astronomers discovered, to their horror, that it found itself on a direct course for the third body, and the most promising, that could sustain life. Within hours the EMA arrived at Europa. 
      Once there, it did the same scan or investigation as it had on Enceladus. Europa and Enceladus have similar features that mark them as particularly attractive possibilities for life. They both contain ocean beneath a coating of ice, and both are heated by tidal friction, the kneading of the moon by the planet which it orbits and its partners in the cosmic dance. So, when the EMA stopped there, paused above the unbroken but scarred expanse of white, and commenced its pattern of dimming and brightening, powering up some internal system or inspection, that confirmed in the minds of the world's scientists that it in fact sought life. We did not know what it did with life, given that we weren't even sure that Enceladus harbored it, and I suppose we still aren't, but the evidence, no matter how circumstantial, pointed in only one direction. The EMA came here to find life, and it must have found some on Enceladus, and was now confirming the same for Europa. What then, had it done with the life it found on Enceladus? Well... the power outputs we observed were enough to annihilate anything, living or otherwise. Now, we again operated with little real, determined information, but we had to assume the worst-case-scenario: the bursts of energy coming from the smaller orbs would have, even if it wasn't the EMA's explicit intention, destroyed anything close to them. What had to smaller orbs done? They had spread through the world and pulsed the same, awesome emanations. Had it cleansed the world of life? We had to assume so.
      It was at this point, once an official, who was determined to either give the people the truth he believed they deserved, or plunge the world in chaos, they ended up being the same, leaked this information.
      . The headlines on the sub-web and the physical lines that had been connected across the globe in the wake of the blackout, reported, as per the usual, not the facts, but a hyperbolized doomsday scenario. Now, this person wasn't wrong, we certainly weighed the possibility that he leaked, but he released the information without such nuance as would have liked to avoid full-scale, planet-wide hysteria. Would the populous have understood the nuance if they had received it? Maybe. Probably not. With previously-unimaginable speed, the information found its way into every community in the world. Before, there remained the possibility in the people's mind that the object might be benign or, though naïve, benevolent. Now however, that idea evaporated, leaving only unadulterated and contagious fear. Our world, Man, believed that an alien object, the EMA, possessed the capability to detect and destroy life, and that it had done so on at least one planet. It now hovered over a second, presumably to do the same.
      Once above the frozen waste of Europa, it scanned, for a shorter period this time. It scanned for just over a week, twice brightening to almost naked-eye visibility from Earth, a truly incredible feat given the distance. Then, once it had finished its scan, it dripped miniature orbs of energy into the oceans of Europa. We followed the same scenario as before, the concentration of the mini-orbs, the seismic spikes in electromagnetic radiation, and the subsequent dispersal of the orbs. We did notice something interesting though. We compared the number of bursts from the mini-orbs on Enceladus to Europa, once the EMA finished its task, and discovered that Europa had far more, though the whole process took less time. We attributed that to the observation that the scanning phase of the encounter took far less time. It appears that whatever the EMA discovered, working hypothesis that it is life, was far more numerous on Europa than on Enceladus. This again aligned with our understanding of exobiology of our solar system. If there remained any doubts as to validity of this hypothesis, the holders wisely kept them to themselves. All evidence, circumstantial as it was, pointed to Earth being the next target. Mankind, the scientific, political, and military bodies of our civilization prepared themselves to fight. All of this took place in the span of little more than a month and a half, or one eighth of a Standard Earth Year.
      The riots intensified, both as news leapt across our oceans of the virtual certitude with which the scientists and military strategists predicted the imminent doom of man, and as the shortages of basic foodstuffs and fuel from the first round of isolationism following the activity above Enceladus took root. Until now, the civil unrest had been perpetrated by the opportunists and the fervently religious; the common man still had food on his table, lights flickering in his home, and most importantly, hope. However, as the sublime realization that Man might be coming to an end, that all economic, political, and governmental structures now had an expiration date, and that date quickly approached, the civilizations that carved up the world all but evaporated. Why go to work to deliver grain if you might have a finite amount of time left with your family? Why risk your life on the streets to defend banks, jewelry stores, and even stores of munitions when their value became non-existent overnight? When the people of our world seriously confronted the idea that everything that they strove for, material, social, and economic metrics by which they defined themselves, perhaps even their whole societies, had been rendered worthless, they reacted with hurt scorn, bewilderment, and terror. Some clung to the old ideas, hording and looting, collecting treasures that under normal circumstances would have forever remained out of their reach. Others left their homes and their possessions, took the families to wherever they felt safest, and awaited the end. Others still organized defensive positions, hoping to combat the coming threat.
      Militias sprung up around the globe, some lead by defecting soldiers that boasted impressive arsenals. Others were comprised of villagers with machetes watching the sky with unease. The actual militaries maintained their effectiveness to varying degrees. Some held a tenuous grip on the major cities under their jurisdiction, while others joined the loots, rioters, and other ne'er-do-wells, providing them with the legitimacy that only the barrel of a gun can. Some heads of state fled to underground bunkers, taking what they deemed might be valuable after the apocalypse, seeds, priceless works of art, electronics, water purifiers. The stores were as varied and eclectic as their hosts. Some of those heads of states, presidents, prime ministers, chancellors, emperors, kings and princes, were overthrown, murdered in their own palaces. To what end? None.
      Long simmering ethnic, religious, and social tensions tore open in a bloody reckoning that shook those still monitoring our world's pulse. Roving gangs of youths, raging against their stolen futures, slaughtered whatever minority group unlucky enough to front the blame in their region. Homosexuals and Jews suddenly faced milenia-old prejudices, and fled for their lives. Their oppressors trailed with bloodthirsty glee. Mass suicides on a scale that dwarfed Jonestown and brought to mind the waves of Berliners hurling themselves unto death ahead of approaching the Allies repeated across the face of the earth. Monks committed large-scale self-immolations and scores of Japanese dressed in the raiments of their Samurai ancestors opened their abdomens in Seppuku. Videos of crucifixions surfaced around the globe. Most of the victims appeared to volunteer themselves for it. Chaos. And there remained the possibility that the EMA might just skip over us...
      However, not all was lost...
      
      
Man
      My name is Dr. Alexander Kadir Demopoulous. I was born in Standard Earth Year 2016, in the year, as my father told it, of the political uprisings heralded by the election of President Donald Trump. That's how father marked time, as the intervals between events; not necessarily events that affected him, no, he wasn't a Trump supporter, but it didn't matter. The whole world remembers that year. I was born eight pounds, nine ounces, just heavier than ideal for one of my species, in the naval hospital connected to the Crete Naval Base, the largest and most important naval base for the United States and NATO in the Mediterranean Sea. It was one of the few harbors in the world capable of servicing the United States' arsenal of aircraft carriers. My father was a navy man and worked on on of those ships. His job was to monitor and maintain the Navy global satellite communication systems. He loved space since he was a little boy. His father bought him his first telescope and accompanying star catalog at the age of eight. From then on, almost every night, my father and grandfather mapped the constellations and traced the mobile stars and planets as they danced across the crystalline sphere on which the immutable stars remained fixed out in their backyard, buttressed by Iowan corn-fields. My grandfather wasn't a farmer, no, but worked as an intermediary between them and the large corporations which employed them. He was a learned man, a veteran too, a Marine, who joined to escape a less-than-ideal home life and served in one of the more peaceful decades of our countries existence. He never saw any combat, though he knew men who participated in the effort to keep the peace during the Palestinian Liberation Organization's exit from Lebanon. 
      The service instilled in him a duty to his country and his fellow man, a duty which he then passed on to my father. Science and Patriotism, two interwoven threads that formed the foundations of my father's youth. He dreamed of being an astronomer, of spending his life furthering mankind's pursuit of knowledge, of uncovering natures secrets. He also understood his country's precarious position as the last remaining superpower, and acutely felt the responsibilities that placed on it, and as a result, him. He made his decision. When high school finished, he, with his father's blessings, left for naval training. He decided the military offered the best path to this career, and joined as an Information Systems Technician. He would learn about global communication networks, which would include knowledge of the technology required to receive, transmit, and interpret data over long distances. These were all skills needed to become a radio astronomer. Then, when his tour was up, the military would pay his way through school.
      He excelled, as his friends and family knew he would, and when the opportunity arose to request a transfer to a specific carrier, he requested, emphatically, that he be assigned to a ship that planned on anchoring in the Crete Naval Base. Why? 
      His study of the stars as a youth took him through the multitude of ancient astronomies and the stories their civilizations wrote over their heads in the brilliant point of light that so fascinated him. In learning about the patterns mankind saw in the night sky, he explored the mythologies of ancient Man, and fixated on those of Greece. That fixation and admiration of Hellenic culture stayed with him throughout his upbringing. So, years into his service, when he found out that there was a possibility to transfer to a ship stationed in Greece itself, in the Crete Naval Base, he leapt at the opportunity.
      Once there, he spent his days off wandering around the streets of Crete, taking in the culture, practicing the phrases he so proudly memorized, and when he had longer periods of vacation, he used them to visit the monuments to the once-mighty civilization that had captured his heart. It was on one of those excursions, in Athens, that he met my mother, a Greek university student. She was in the city on that fateful afternoon visiting family. She attended the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki studying architecture, the philosophy of her university's namesake, and mathematics. She also, due to her father's prominent and well-paying position the Greek government, had spent time overseas and had a far more impressive command of the English language than my father had of Greek. They began a courtship that ended quickly in marriage. He extended for another tour at the base and she lived in Crete after school, where she bore me. They decided that their child should bear her last name as his middle. So, I was named for the most powerful, ambitious, megalomaniacal man in Western history, Alexander the Great. My middle name became Demopoulos, my mother's maiden name, and my last remained that of my father, Michaelson. My parents hoped that such a name might spur me on to great heights. It did, in a way.
      My father finished his final tour and he and my mother left Greece and settled in California, where he had been accepted to attend the California Institute of Technology, made famous by one of our greatest and most outspoken scientists, Richard Feynman. There, he studied astronomy and computer science while my mother stayed home and tended to my raising. Though she was university educated, she didn't mind. No, she was happy with what the government gave them to survive on and saw in my father the potential for greatness. She thought that maybe someday she might return to work, but was in hurry to do so. 
      I grew up in the sand. I loved the sand, the waves, the crashing and gnawing at the edges of the earth. I appreciated the power the oceans had, the multitude of life that called it their home. I fancied myself a diver, an oceanographer, a marine biologist. My parents supported each pursuit I expressed interest in. Posters and pictures of the most magnificent and strange creatures known to Man adorned my childhood-room's walls. The books on my bookshelves shared their space with jars of preserved fish, sharks, and multi-limbed monsters. I breathed through a snorkel almost as much as I breathed with my naked mouth. The day I turned ten I began working on my PADI Junior Open Water Diver Certification and upgraded it on my fifteenth birthday. As I entered high school I became convinced that I would spend my days floating in the ocean depths researching Earth's strangest creatures. Vampire squid, angler fish, blue-ringed octopus, the more morphologically distant to me, the better. I developed a passion for conservation, giving long lectures to any family members who would listen to me. I picked up plastic bags so they wouldn't stray into the ocean and made sure to recycle and berated those closest to me for not doing so as well.
      After my father's Ph.D, wherein he developed a new, faster and less computationally expensive method of astronomical data processing to help handle the incredible loads of data and images streaming from our in-orbit telescopes, the James Webb and its successor the Fritz Zwicky Deep Space Telescope, namesake of the man that first proposed the idea of dark matter. As of transmission of this message, we still don't know what it is. Do you?
      His family moved with him to his first post-doc position, which morphed into an associate professorship, which in turn led to tenure, in Berkeley, California. That is where I spent the bulk of my upbringing. Beyond the surf, I immersed myself in the arts and music scenes of Berkeley. More than once my parents caught me sneaking out of the house to sneak into a music venue. I wandered around downtown and made friends with street artists and homeless who for a dollar would tell you all of life's secrets, the ones the government wouldn't spill, man.
      When he could, my father always pressured me to come to on-campus symposiums or events. Though my interest in the ocean never waned, I developed an appreciation for its opposite, space. I accompanied my father on trips to telescopes, to NASA headquarters, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, to Cape Canaveral. He often regaled me with stories of him and his father peering up at the night sky as a boy while we were doing the same. My father was world-renowned, and passed on as much of his knowledge to me as he could. I interned at his laboratory in high school for credit, often spending nights there with my special badge that opened the always-locked doors made just for me listening to electro-blues and the 2030's versions of punk. 
      By the time I graduated high school, he had converted me. I was ready to become, not an astronomer, but an electrical engineer focusing on the technologies required for the profession. They made more money then. I turned from the blue-black to the vacuum-black, but scuba-diving remained a hobby throughout my life. 
      Science and religion had been at each other's throats since the beginnings of the Enlightenment. Giordano Bruno burned at the stake for running afoul of the Roman Inquisition in Standard Earth Year 1600. Galileo followed, persecuted by the same religious body. These events, and others, ignited a theological, philosophical, and social conflict that lasted right up until Man ceased to exist. Je pense, donc de suis. My father was not religious, never had been despite being raised in the heartland of the Moral Majority, and died a devout agnostic. My mother, in contrast, spent large swaths of her childhood attending the Eastern Orthodox Church. She memorized the most relevant and interesting passages of her holy book, studied the theories of Theosis and Theoria of John Romanides and the mysticism of Vladimir Lossky, and found in the as-of-yet misunderstood working of the world His divine touch. 
      My father disagreed in as far as it mattered for his day-to-day living. He didn't attend church, but he didn't shun it either. He thought that the principle use of religion was to quell the heart when something terrible happened or to fill in the quickly shrinking gaps of our scientific knowledge. If asked if God created the world, he would have answered: "Sure, but what am I supposed to do with that information?" If asked whether or not one should donate to the church, he was fond of citing mega-pastors and "Jesus-jets" as to why he preferred to spend his money elsewhere. One would think that two people who disagreed on something so fundamental might not have made a good match, but that simply wasn't so. As my mother matured, she drifted away from the church, and though she maintained her ardent faith in her heart, she found that she didn't need it to be a good mother and wife. They simply never had reason to discuss it. That was, however, until the accident.
      Berkeley boasts many parks and forests surrounding the city-scape. One such park is the Tilden Regional Park. My mother was an avid exerciser and healthy-eater. My country was dying from an obesity epidemic at the time, and she determined not to ever be a part of those statistics. She ran whenever she could, on the weekdays around our neighborhood and on the weekends at one of the various trails available for such activities. Her favorite though was the Tilden Regional Park. 
      I read a book once, The Death of Ivan Ilyich by the great Leo Tolstoy. It tells the story of a man who, through a seemingly innocuous accident, find himself dying of an unknown, and therefore incurable, ailment. It chronicles his descent in depression, the realization that the worldly pursuits to which he had dedicated his life amounted to naught, and that those members of his family he deemed closest were the first to abandon him. 
      Now, my mother's family, us, never abandoned her, nor did she discover that her life had been wasted on trivial pursuits. In these regards, the book had no bearing. However, she did find herself, though a seemingly innocuous accident, not unlike that of the titular character from Tolstoy's celebrated novella, dying of an incurable disease.
      On one trail run, in every way like the rest, she slipped on a large rock caught under her stride. She tumbled hard onto her left side. She right herself, dusted her synthetic, elastic-fibered work-out clothing off and examined the bottom part of her leg. The covering stopped just below the knee, leaving her calf open to the elements. This area took the brunt of her fall and now bled enough to warrant her return home. Once home, she followed standard protocol and showered, lathered the wound with sterilization liquids and ointments, and covered it. Two days later the bandage, changed every few hours as her research into home-care dictated, seeped yellow and stank of infection. The deep crimson lines led away from the wound and carried with them deadly, microscopic cargo. I wasn't home then. I attended school at UCLA, studying electrical engineering and astronomy. My mother knew enough to visit a doctor, who, to her dismay, visibly recoiled when he removed the gauze. 
      They admitted her to the hospital immediately and began a bacteria-massacring regiment of antibiotics. She waved my father away and told him not to worry. She refused to call me, saying that it would only upset and that I needed to study.
      Two days later her fever refused to be subdued and the lower half of that infected leg resembled a roadmap of deep-set lines of infection. The doctors threw everything they had at it, multiple-drug cocktails that had only been tried in a few other patients. My father and I spent several days with her as she oscillated between unconsciousness and delirium. We prepared ourselves for the worst. Then, she pulled through. In two days she went from moaning in Greek, in which father and I could engage in polite conversation but couldn't hope to discern what she said, to assuaging our fears about her health. She left the hospital less than two weeks since the accident a free woman. Her tango with death didn't pass without consequences though.
      After the accident, my mother returned to her faith, renewed by her spilled blood and her near-death experience. She didn't plant herself on the street corner and shout at little kids that their eternal souls would burn in the great sulfur lake, nor did she toss moltov cocktails at abortion clinics. No, she did nothing of the sort. She quietly located her tomes of the Great Church Fathers, Basil of Caesarea, Athanasius of Alexandria, Gregory of Nazianzus, and John Chrysostum, dusted them off, and opened them with a fresh heart. She brushed up on her Koine Greek and began attending services again. Father didn't mind either way. He loved the spiritual side of mother. It contrasted nicely with his analytical, naturalistic philosophy. 
      For my part, I attended church as a young boy and stopped as a teenager. Father had many fond memories of youth mission trips, deep, philosophical discussions during Wednesday night Bible study, usually initiated and dominated by him. He believed, independent of the content of the experience, being a member of a tight-nit group and being encouraged to explore the more abstract, deeper questions that Man has asked should be a part of every young person's life. After I recused myself from the church, I filled these voids, philosophical, emotional, and spiritual, with equations, computer code, and music. 
      However, after Mother nearly lost her life, I found myself, as many do after confronting an unthinkable possibility, losing one's parents, reevaluating my priorities, reorienting myself in the great cosmos surrounding me. I found myself, during my breaks from school, sitting with her and working through the old texts, listening raptly as she espoused her informed views on existence, on God, on Jesus, on Faith and how They are the same aspect. She never converted me, no, but then again, that was never her intention. She only meant to open my eyes and fulfill her motherly duty to expose me to the her faith. The choice was mine to make on my own, without undue pressure or duress. In the presence of such influences, can one even entertain the illusion of free will?
      Though I didn't submit myself to these ideas, to faith and church and tradition, I kept the concepts in my back pocket, reserving them. For some, they see God when they awake after a car accident that by all should have severed their life, or when they gaze on their first born, or some even through mind altering substances. I didn't until the EMA arrived on Earth. 
      
      Dr. Alexander Kadir Demopoulos, Ph.D. My dissertation title was Novel Methods for Identification and Extraction of Periodic Signals Among Noise-Rich Backgrounds. It was a program with wide-ranging applications, including astronomy, where I had originally intended it, and the military, which took a keep interest. In the beginning of my career, I shunned academia, not because of anything wrong with it, but simple job security and pay. I moved into the private sector upon graduation and made more than my father did after gaining tenure at Berkeley. I worked for At&T for a few yeas, then moved on to other companies. I had a good life. I dated, went out in whatever major city I found myself in, always on the West Coasts. I had earned my Master Scuba Diver Certification in college and continued to dive in exotic locals whenever I could. I visited my parents frequently, though they visited me more often than not. Father and I, in my spare time, even collaborated on a fun project. He had been convinced against his better nature to have a look at the SETI work at Berkeley and asked for me to consult on some data processing the team was trying to do. I, in my spare time, if I can brag about it, developed a very powerful method for distinguishing ultra-fast radio pulses consistent from extra-galactic pulsars. This work highlighted me for the Astropulse-SETI team, and I began to received many offers for consulting work, research positions, and collaborations. I hesitated then. Extra-terrestrial searches were interesting, but, even though I believed, as most who study the cosmos, that Man is not alone, I didn't see that as a valuable use of my time. However, I enjoyed the collaborative effort with my father,and I admit it was far more interesting to be a part of a team with such lofty goals. At my day job, the technical problems were no less intense, but never sparked the kind of wonder and possibilities that SETI and other astronomy projects provoked in me. So, in the next three years, I transitioned away from the private sector and into the public university setting. 
      The pay decrease hurt, but I got to talk to my father often and out names appeared on several papers together. One night, after the publication of our third such effort, we sat out on the patio of his and mom's condo. She had already gone to sleep and between us rested a bottle of Glenfiddich 21. Drinking whiskey was an expensive habit I developed back when I made more money. We spoke about my future, my understanding of reality, and what I wanted my legacy to be. We also discussed family. I recently turned thirty-four, and though I had gone on several dates with beautiful women, I had yet to encounter one that held my fancy for more than a few months. Father worried about me, about the best part of life, as he claimed, that I would miss if I didn't settle down and have children. He claimed, after the bottle stood more than half empty, told me that despite the secrets he's learned and the mysteries he's explored, the greatest joy in his life was watching me do the same. He said he took more pleasure in watching me discover how to use an iPhone than he did presenting his Ph.D thesis. My weekly calls excited him more than the latest paper freshly vetted, peer-reviewed, and accepted for publication. 
      No, the stars and the space between them, no matter how vast and seductive, never measured up to my first steps, my first words, or what he felt when I strolled across the stage to accept my degree. He urged me, in the ways only a father can, to experience love and fatherhood. As he approached the end of his monologue, his voice cracked and he had to wipe at his eyes. I thanked him for his advice, told him I loved him, and remarked that it was probably time to call it a night. He laughed, set his glass down, and agreed.
      So, why didn't I find love? I had no answer. I loved my work, had been beguiled by the possibilities my work offered to Man, and devoted my time to them. That's true of course, but I always felt something was amiss, that my relationships up to that point lacked a fundamental piece of human connection. That didn't bother me too much though.
      
Contingencies
      You are in danger.
      When the call came, I was sitting at my desk in the UCLA Earth, Planetary, and Space Sciences building. I already had a good idea of what everyone else knew. An object appeared, with no prior warning, beyond the orbit of Rhea. Rhea, funny choice. The occurrence intrigued me, as it did everyone, but like everyone, I wasn't concerned. By this point, I had established myself as the the expert on long range radio communications. The scientific, military, and public sectors sought me for my skills. I had, since receiving my PH.D, worked for SETI, the Department of Defense, and the Berkeley and UCLA Astronomy departments. My career, though it remained in its infancy, seemed bright and illustrious. My tasks often overlapped. I might collaborate with a cosmologist mapping out the Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation there at UCLA or might spend the summer sitting with DARPA scientists ironing out kinks in prototype spy network satellites. I was a commodity. So, it came as no surprise when I received the call.
      They requested my help. They told me, in as plain language as possible, that the military's first priority was determining whether this object represented an intelligent effort, or whether it might be just a natural phenomena. The caller didn't leave me much room for refusal. Within twenty-four hours I found myself among generals, heads of NASA, cabinet members o my government, and a selection of private companies deemed to have strategic or scientific value. 
      They gave me access to technology that even I had only heard rumors of. The list included NSA cryptography algorithms and Navy long-range sniffing equipment. My goal was simple: monitor the object for any indication it might be trying to communicate with us or with another actor. I took to my role with the diligence it demanded.
      Those in command forbid us from discussing our work with anyone on penalty of treason. I took this threat seriously, and when my colleagues questioned me I hid behind the curtain of secrecy. I couldn't tell them for my protection as well as their own. 
      So, we watched. We observed as the EMA traveled to Enceladus. We speculated and delivered the fruits of those speculations to the authorities. We gathered data and analyzed it with the decryption and sniffing programs at our disposal. We theorized and hypothesized and guessed. Nothing interesting arose. As the situation deteriorated, command requested, again with a tone indicating the request was not one, that we move to a more secure facility. Soon, we had set up in the bowels of the Fort Meade. The other agencies fed whatever information they deemed pertinent to this facility and we had free rein to do with it as we pleased.
      The world around us fell into chaos as the EMA deluged its cargo onto Europa. Leaks were hunted and and dealt with in the most efficient ways possible. With the suspension of babeus corpus, those that disappeared stayed that way. I never feared for my own safety, but I understood, thought it pained to me admit, the necessity. 
      All of our efforts yielded little useful information. As the growing realization came that this object, the EMA, had the capability of destroying the civilization of Man and that the most plausible explanation for its activities on other worlds was exactly that, even the chain of command of my government's military began to crack. Mass desertions occurred daily. Flights had been grounded at the outset and even they hadn't been, no one went anywhere except for home. National Guard deployments, meant to keep the peace in our greatest cities, disintegrated in a matter of weeks as they panicked and fled to be with their families. I couldn't blame them. Orders were issued to shoot deserters on sight, but I doubt if many executions happened. When facing the apocalypse, what rational was there to gun a man down while leaving to spend his last days with his family? None. 
      However, Man is, among other things, clever. My job, as I mentioned, was to determine if the EMA was intelligent in nature, if we faced a threat from an alien civilization. While I toiled away, fourteen, sixteen, sometimes longer, hour days, other groups worked on competing projects.
      The moment the EMA appeared, in a meeting between the president, cabinet members, generals, the heads of NASA, and civilian scientists deemed most expert, all scenarios received their due debate. What if it were a harmless phenomena? What if it represented a benevolent alien presence? What if it represented a hostile alien presence? Could it be defeated? They debated every possibility, taking seriously each one, assuming it true and following the chain of logic. How might they react? They drew up plans for each, and within three Standard Earth Days, respective teams began their projects.
      My goal, as I stated, was to help answer these questions, but it only made sense to prepare for each answer before knowing. As we say here, better safe than sorry. What if the EMA represented a benevolent presence? Well then we had best get to working on how we might present ourselves to them. The project's name was Project Alexandria. The name represents the ancient Royal Library of Alexandria, then the largest and most expansive repository of Man's knowledge and literature in existence. Interestingly enough, the city in which it receives it name, Alexandria, was named for the same person I am, Alexander the Great. The idea behind the project is simple: gather the world's scientific, literary, visual and musical achievements. 
      The Smithsonian Institution, Metropolitan, Lourve, State Heritage Museum of Russia, National Museum of China, Vatican Museums, Tokyo National Museum, and several others received the call to gather recordings of their respective languages, high-resolution scans and pictures of their most prized works of art, recordings of the music that defined their successive generations, movies that captured their culture, speeches made by their activists, leaders, and dissidents, anything that might represent their understanding of themselves. The Nobel Foundation submitted copies of the scientific papers and works of literature deemed worth of their prizes. The American Academy of Arts and Letters, National Archives, and MPAA did the same with their stores of expression. The Project Alexandria collaborators amassed a staggering wealth of cultural, linguistic, and historical digital artifacts. They prepared the data, and cyphers to understand it, to be transmitted to the EMA to represent what Man is, his greatest achievements and manifestations of his spirit. However, Project Alexandria also had a second use. It was to be the collective evidence for Man's existence.
      Our hope, foremost, was that the EMA might be a phenomena that posed to threat. Our second is that it might be a benevolent intelligence. These were our preferred outcomes. Our third was that it might be malevolent intelligence that we could beat if confronted. If this came to pass, what might we do? Well, every data point that we processed also passed through the hands of the greatest military scientists, engineers, and strategists we had to offer. They devised innumerable battle plans and weapons, and our government allocated inexhaustible funds towards the construction of said weapons. Speaking truthfully though, I doubt anyone believed possibility three was true. The technology to even arrive in our solar system the way the EMA did all but ruled out an even fight. Our fourth was that it might be a malevolent force we could not defeat. What then?
      If possibility four showed itself to be true, then we decided, with a heavy and somber heart, to preserve what made us great, special, and a worthwhile addition to the Universe's Children. We collected our crowning achievements and expressions of ourselves, loaded them into a large file, and prepared our long-range communication devices to beam the file into space. We called this Mission Hermes.
      Hermes is the Greek god and the emissary and messenger of his divine brethren. His is the youngest son of Zeus, the Lord of the Pantheon, and the Pleiad Maia. In the Hellenistic myths, Hermes appeared in the celebrated works of Homer and Hesiod, the foundations of our Western society. The name represents our attempt to warn and to preserve, to pass on our knowledge of the EMA and of ourselves to any intelligent species listening. When it became certain the EMA headed towards Earth, my focus switched from identification and classification to Mission Hermes specialist. It was a dubious mission at best. Our goal is to do what exactly? 
      NASA had a data base of all suspected planets capable of harboring life. Some are close, Enceladus, Titan, and Europa, but most are far. So, we decided to transmit our message of warning and preservation of Man towards each of these destinations. On top of the one we strongly suspected, which should have first priority in case we didn't finish the mission, we included any planetary body, period. This provided a long list of hopeful candidates. What must that look like to received, in no uncertain terms, the entirety of a civilizations history, language, and culture? Worse yet, to know that they civilization was wiped from existence by a menacing extra-terrestrial threat that might be scanning the heavens for other victims. I can only say that I am glad it isn't us discovering this transmission undulating across empty space. By the time this message reaches the first destination, the bones of Man's infrastructure will still stand . By the time it reaches the last, all traces of Man will have likely been wiped clean by the unforgiving sweep of time and the persistence of nature upon our works. 
      A private space company had been scheduled to use one of their rockets to place a telecommunications satellite in orbit, but we commandeered it for our long-range antenna, the most advanced and precise our species has yet created, and retrofitted it to an incomplete module for one of our orbiting scientific facilities. The idea was for us to move into orbit, hopefully to by us more time, as the mini-orbs the EMA dispersed hadn't been shown to act in space, though of course we had no real indication if that might be true. Once there, we would augment the ground based antenna transmitting the same message and, to use one of our favored idioms, not put all our eggs in one basket. At the same time, all ground-based antenna and the Mission Hermes satellite would being transmission. The ground-based would probably be too imprecise. The precision needed for even the furtherest intra-Earth distances absolutely palled in comparison with our objective. In all probability, these messages would disperse to such a degree so as to be indistinguishable among the soups of planetary, galactic, and cosmic radio waves in which all bodies bask. Would our hopeful candidates have technology sufficient to discern and identify our message when it reached them? Would it, even with everything we packaged in to aid in the deciphering of the information, be understandable to them? Or would the sum total of Man be nothing more than unintelligible high and low pitched scratches in whatever passes for ears of an alien species. We have no way of knowing. Worse yet, would the receiving species understand our warning? 
      Our leaders scrambled as the EMA careened across the orbit of Mars on a collision course for Earth. Across the world we noted bursts of electron-magnetic energy, pulses of force that shook our seismic sensors, and radiation spikes. We were not the only ones to be testing out our combat capabilities. The few governments that managed to retain a semblance of organization did collaborate. I will admit I am impressed. They engaged in a transfer of information unparalleled in human history. Every factory and laboratory deem to have military importance fell into the purview of their respect governments. Concentrated nuclear weapons, powerful laser bursts, electro-magnetic pulse generating, and wave cancellation technology used to jam communications all saw their trials. Our world saw more innovation in two months than it did in all of our greatest conflicts combined. We are an ingenious bunch. In the hours before the EMA made landfall, the world aimed its weapons at the sky and held its breath. 
      Meanwhile, we toiled day and night to retrofit the satellite to house a few technicians. We didn't need much, only enough bodies to run the antennae, maintain the Mission Hermes satellite and living module in low orbit for the duration of the mission, and maybe someone with enough medical training to keep the first two alive. How long was the mission expected to last? We had no idea. The EMA might blow Hermes out of the sky. It might leave it alone. Either way, we realized we would never have enough time. We had a very long list and it would take time to complete each transmission. Adding to the difficulties, we needed to calculate where each target would be by the time the transmission reached them. That meant we had the greatest supercomputers in the world calculating orbital mechanics across the galaxy. No one trusted the predictions to be accurate, but we had to have something. So, as the rocket fueled on the launching platform, we continued to upload the trajectories of our targets. Our ground-based antennae received the same instructions. 
      Who would go? This was a suicide mission, no doubt about that. Even if, by some miracle, the EMA didn't annihilate humanity, either because it did nothing or because we won the fight, the engineers had no time to plan for reentry. Those that went up would die when the satellite lost altitude and gravity jerked it rudely to the ground. We decided to sacrifice food for fuel, figuring a human would survive longer with less food than the satellite with less fuel. Starve or burn in the upper atmosphere. Has there ever been a more exemplary Sophie's Choice? Certainly. 
      I found myself again heartened what I witnessed in my fellow man. When it came time to choose the potential last surviving humans, everyone with even a modicum of value to the mission volunteered. Everyone at mission control pledged they would forsake spending the last minutes of their lives with their family to give an unknown, unfathomable species a fighting chance at avoid our fate. The directors of our mission combed through our qualifications and, to my immense satisfaction and sadness, they chose me. I was, as I mentioned, one of, if not the leading expert in long range communication, and I had been present from the beginning of the mission. Truthfully, they had no other options. I received the news in the hours leading up to launch. I asked to phone my family. I hadn't spoken to them since the nation went dark. Almost no one here had. They denied my request. The Western coast had been consumed by mayhem and martial law barely managed to keep the droves of hungry, scared Americans from overwhelming the strategically important sites there. Communications couldn't be set up in time and I wasn't allowed to leave the facility. My director delivered the news with a pat on my shoulder and a look that said No one is going to tell their loved ones good bye here. Fair enough. 
      We almost didn't launch in time. Every safety procedure suffered shortcuts. Every warning light that strobed in our faces quickly found itself disconnected. There wasn't time. The EMA had already arrived over Manila in the Philippines. Why? The best was because it had the highest population density in the world. Where better to start whatever nefarious plot the EMA had with Man than there?
Landfall
      The launch was, thankfully, uneventful. We achieved our orbit in the predicted time with minimal surprises. As we launched from Florida, we had several minutes to wait until we passed over the eastern side of out world. When we did, all eyes, six in total, stared out the windows to glimpse the EMA. Reports from the Philippines hadn't exaggerated. It glowed, bright, powerful, overtaking the sun with ease. Waves of color, the entire rainbow represented, rippled across its surface. It could have been a Willi Wonka everlasting gob-stopper or the easel with which God draw the universe. It began to pulse in the instant it arrived. Long-range analysis showed that the pulsed could damage human vision, so we were prohibited from looking at it without protection. Did the people on the ground, staring up from the streets or leaning of the balconies receive the same warning. We doubted it. Sure enough, as it began pulsing, the reports arrive from the ground of the populace too close being blinded, their retinas seared. They ran through the streets imploding the calm that had descended over the city of eleven million. Chaos. That's what our controllers on the ground showed us. A significant portion of the city suffered immediate, irreversible blindness, painful fire ripping across their optic nerves, sending them into a pain-induced panic. Everyone, police, emergency medical services, the military presence in the city, suffered. What followed was madness on a scale dwarfing anything imaginable. Fires, accidents, and fearful violence, erupted across the city. Those unaffected tried to quell the unrest, but from our images, it didn't seem to work. 
      Dr. Peter Mitchel Woodard, Navy fighter pilot turned NASA mission commander and Dr. Emily Marie Guinevere, NASA medical expert with multiple studies on the effects of long-term space inhabitance to her credit, and I got work quickly. The ground-based antennas launched their digital cargo at eight million meters per second, or thereabout, and we began along our list of most-possible candidates with the coordinates our computers gave us as fast as we could blast the message into space. The EMA pulsed for more than a week. We continued our work with fevered diligence. Sleep, rest, and basic human functions fell by the wayside. There was a still a chance that nothing would happen, or even more far-fetched, something good. Then, the EMA began to collect at its base.
      The underbelly of the EMA collected, bulged and distended, and burst. Surging forth from the wound, millions of miniature, most about as big as a standard car, flooded towards Manila. The view from the ground was horrific, but interesting. Most of the population that hadn't been blinded fled on every conceivable means of transportation, Those few who stayed confronted the mini-orbs. They fired guns, rockets, hid behind cars, building, underground, in tanks, wherever and with whatever they could. Conventional weapons were inefficacious. The orbs zipped faster than a commercial airliner. We had to slow the imaged down to even make sense of them. The city lit up bright, nearly surpassing the mother EMA itself. How so?
      Each time a mini-orb collided with a person, it glowed white-hot, overtaking the other momentarily. Then, in a second's time, it returned to the hunt. Yes, we determined that they hunted. They actively sought out people to interact with. I hesitate to use the word destroy, because it isn't strictly speaking, true. They did not, through a means which we cannot discern, burn, disintegrate, or otherwise harm the person in any way. Given the temperatures and radiation involved, we would normally deem this impossible. However, given that the same scenario played itself out millions of times over the span of seconds as the mini-orbs spread throughout the city, we could only shrug our shoulders. The mini-orbs, when they collided with someone, brightened as described, held the person suspended within it, and then dropped them. Dead. Yes, the victims died. How? We aren't sure. As I said, the pristine condition of the bodies, baring any injuries they sustained before the encounter, baffled us. 
      The mini-orbs ripped through high-rises, underground tunnels, across the water and through the sky. They damaged nothing. Whatever they are, they passed through each barrier without interacting with it in the least. They didn't even, as far as we could tell, generate wind. They moved as if ghosts, passing etherially through space and matter as if they presented no obstacle. What could do that?
      However, after the mini-orbs spread to other locations along the archipelagic country and continued to Vietnam, Malaysia, Thailand, Myanmar, and China, we began to get a better picture of what the mini-orbs were doing. Our first question was whether they would attack, and we thought of the interactions in these terms, all creatures. Ever since the dominant theory of the EMA's activities on Enceladus and Europa, we wondered if they sought life, including microscopic, of if there might be a specific criteria. Intelligence was an obvious one, and one we favored owing the fact, true or not, that we are the dominant species on the planet because of our intelligence. Data we gathered from the two other planets was inconclusive. So, we observed from our bunkers across the world as they killed person after person. 
      Bolstering this theory, that the orbs sought not just life, but intelligent life. We noted them skipping right over animals. They passed through trees, consumed birds who then passed harmlessly through them as they darted across the sky. Underwater cameras caught them barreling through schools of fish who escaped unscathed. So, we determined that we were right. The mini-orbs sought intelligence, to absorb it kill it. Given that we had no understanding, not even hypothetical, of what they were doing to the humans they encountered to kill them, we couldn't even guess.
      However, as the mini-orbs reached China, we received more information that aided us in making informed guesses.
      Anencaphaly is a cephalic disorder that occurs during embryonic development. The word means "no in-head", or no brain. Depending on the severity of the disease, the infant has some of its brain. It usually lacks the telecephalon, also known as the cerebellum. The cerebellum is the part of our brains that houses the structures responsible for all "higher" functions, including the neocortex, from which spring sensory perception, cognition, generation of motor commands, spacial reasoning and language. Basically, we are us because of the cerebellum. Without it we are little more than a body being kept alive by the brain stem, and unfeeling, unsensing, inert mass of cells owing its continued existence to the robotic machinations of our brain stems. 
      One of the most severe forms of this disease is called holoanencephaly. This designations means that the entire cerebellum is absent, meaning that the higher functions of the human child are limited to only those performed by the brain stem, I.e. respiration, digestion, etc. In this case, any intelligence has failed to form. The child is an empty vessel without even the capability of intelligence of any kind. So, would the mini-orb attack it? The hypothesis that the mini-orbs sought intelligence indicated that they would.
      In China, as the mini-orbs swept across the heavily populated coast, we received a video that answered this question. The governments, the ones still standing after the EMA arrived to Earth and began its scanning, did collaborate. They knew of Mission Hermes and provided us with as much information as possible to transmit. This meant that each subsequent transmission would contain more data than the previous. When a video shot and transmitted to Beijing from a hospital in Macau arrived in our terminals, some questions received their answer, and other, more interesting questions arose. This video showed an anencephalic child, moments before death, as they never live long, being consumed by a mini-orb.
      That child was, though I dislike to consider a living human this way, utterly less capable of thought than even the trees the mini-orbs passed without issue. So, it seemed to us that it couldn't be intelligence only. Perhaps it was the possibility of intelligence? Perhaps the EMA wished to wipe out species in which the possibility of intelligence, if not actualized in a specific member, existed? Maybe. That made a kind of sense. 
      Except that surveillance videos from zoos showed orbs tearing across the parks and leaving all animals unaffected, including great apes which are our closest living relatives and are smarter than even young humans. It appeared the mini-orbs only killed humans, irrespective of whether they were intelligent or not. Why?
      In the days between when the EMA released its cargo on our world and when all ground-based communication to us ceased, we debated endlessly. Was the EMA eliminating potentially dangerous rivals before we became technologically advanced? If that were so, that implied Enceladus and Europa had sufficiently advanced or potentially advanced species to be considered a threat. That was an interesting possibility. Assuming the veracity of the claim, how did it discern which creatures should be included? The great apes shared nearly ninety-nine percent of their DNA with us and regularly pass most intelligence tests such as tool use, recognition, and gestural language. Shouldn't these animals be included? Did they not have the potential to reach our intellectual heights if given enough time?
      To complicate the picture, we had to consider further obfuscants, certain genetic diseases which radically alter our DNA and our intelligence. One such disease, Down Syndrome, duplicates our twenty-first chromosome. Given that a normal human has forty-six chromosomes, this means a person so afflicted would have forty-seven. The math shows that this person would differ from a typical human by roughly two percent, or more than a chimpanzee. Also, if this person were to be particularly mentally disabled, it is very reasonable to suspect a foreign agent might not see so fine a distinction and either would need to include chimpanzees or exclude humans with these, and similar, diseases. 
      However, we saw no such thing. As far as our information led us, all humans, regardless of intellect or disability, suffered the same fate. Similarly, all animals, regardless of their  escaped unscathed. Now, it is obvious to us that merely classifying creatures based on statistical DNA criteria is foolish, there are morphological, evolutionary, sexual, and other criteria that allow us to determine where our species begins and another ends. But were we willing to accept that the EMA had all this information? Perhaps. The technology it possessed, if it was even tech, was incredible to do what it did. Still, the idea was hard to swallow.
      Where did that leave us? Here is what we know. We know the EMA visited Enceladus, Europa, and Earth. We know at each location it released smaller orbs which then spread across the worlds. We know that on Earth, the orbs attacked, with specified targeting, man. We also know that the orbs avoided all other animals on Earth. The actions of the mini-orbs, brightening as they attacked a human, were seen on Enceladus and Europa. 
      What did we guess? We guess the EMA sought out life in our solar system. We guess the mini-orbs interact the way they do only with the most intelligent creatures. Given what we know and what we guess, we can also safely deduce the moons contained very intelligent creatures that the EMA eradicated.
      Within less than five Standard Earth Days, the mini-orbs had routed out and killed all humans on the face of our world. Our president, along with many other heads of state tried to hide underground. That was wholly ineffective. No one survived. Well, no one except for us. The crew of Mission Hermes watched in awe as the mini-orbs collected themselves below the EMA and reversed their previous action wherein they fell. They coalesced, the blob billowed, rippled, swelled, and roiled. Then, it lifted off the ground and returned to the EMA. The EMA then hung suspended above a cleansed world for several more Standard Earth Days before disappearing in a shower of radiation. Gone. Just like that. Where it once sat looming over the world, only blackness now occupied. Where had it gone? It either returned home or continued with its mission of ridding worlds of... what? 
      What did we do then, the last three humans alive? We worked. We stared out the windows on a world that, to our infiinite sadness, continued to spin, to house the multitude of species we had once conquered, to live. Why were we sad the world continued to live? Man counts among its flaws an incredible arrogance. An individual human might plunge millions of his fellows into war for that arrogance. Nations and empires have destroyed themselves believing in salvation through their exeptionality. Our civilization in my time poisoned its water, fumigated its air, and salted the very soil in which it grew its food with substances feared for their deleterious effects on the body. Some sounded the alarm in each of these instances, for with great arrogance comes great humility, but arrogance is easier. To witness a world where the sun shone, where animals mated and birthed, continuing the unbroken lineage stretching across time to the primordial organisms from which we descend, in our absence only serves to highlight our superfluoicity. We are not Nature's treasured child. We are another branch on her great tree that, like almost all before us, has been pruned. No one cares. Nothing changes. Existence blinks and moves on.
      
Alone
      This is the factual content of this message. I cannot provide further insight into the EMA's motives, as our data ends here. I am sorry. However, I can do what Man is very good at doing. I can speculate. 
<$surname> / Orbit /  

